.TH TWSU-CHECK 1 "July 2026" "tw-safe-update 1.1.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
twsu-check \- analyze whether an openSUSE Tumbleweed dist-upgrade is safe
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B twsu-check
[\fB\-\-pretty\fR] [\fB\-\-list\fR] [\fB\-\-cached\fR] [\fB\-\-no\-refresh\fR] [\fB\-\-offline\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B twsu-check
refreshes repository metadata and runs
.B zypper dist-upgrade --dry-run
(both read-only, passwordless via a narrow sudoers rule granted to the
.B twsafeupdate
group), then classifies the proposed transaction:
.TP
.B SAFE
Clean resolution: no dependency problems, no vendor changes, no downgrades,
no removals, nothing held back.
.TP
.B UP_TO_DATE
Nothing to do.
.TP
.B CAUTION
Resolvable, but review recommended (held-back packages, downgrades,
non-critical removals, a same-project vendor adoption).
.TP
.B UNSAFE
Dependency problems, packages leaving the Packman vendor (codec loss),
critical package removals, or a package-name collision: an installed
third-party package and an unrelated repository package that share a name,
detected by comparing upstream URLs.
.PP
The result is written as JSON to
.I ~/.cache/tw-safe-update/status.json
for the tray application, or printed for humans with
.BR \-\-pretty .
Pending Flatpak updates are reported as well (informational; they do not
affect the verdict). Only one check runs at a time; a second invocation
prints the last result.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-pretty
Human-readable report instead of JSON.
.TP
.B \-\-list
With \fB\-\-pretty\fR, also list every package and Flatpak that would change.
.TP
.B \-\-cached
Print the last saved result without re-checking.
.TP
.B \-\-no\-refresh
Skip the repository metadata refresh.
.TP
.B \-\-offline
Skip the online extras (latest-snapshot lookup, Packman lag, Flatpak list).
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.cache/tw-safe-update/status.json
Last verdict, consumed by \fBtwsu-tray\fR(1).
.TP
.I ~/.cache/tw-safe-update/last-dup-output.txt
Raw dry-run output, for debugging.
.TP
.I /etc/sudoers.d/50-tw-safe-update
The read-only NOPASSWD rule (group \fBtwsafeupdate\fR).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR twsu-update (1),
.BR twsu-details (1),
.BR twsu-tray (1),
.BR zypper (8)
